---
layout: page
title: "Committees"
permalink: /about/committees/
---
## Where the work happens

Sacramento DSA has many committees engaged in the important work of the chapter,
addressing the needs of the community and allowing the members to work on issues
that are important to them.

### Electoral Committee

We're working to bring socialists into office. Help us elect our endorsed candidate Dr. Flo for mayor of Sacramento.

* Co-Chair(s): TBA


### Healthcare Committee

DSA is working with a coalition of local groups and the California Nurses
Association to fight for single-payer healthcare. We are pushing to enact HR
1384, the Medicare For All of 2019 Act, which would create a Medicare-for-All
type system that covers everybody in the United States with no copays or
deductibles. We have been knocking on doors, tabling at farmersâ€™ markets,
creating memes, holding town halls, meeting with legislators, and doing actions
at their offices.

* Co-Chair(s): Shirley T. and Jenny O.

### International Committee

While living in the United States and acknowledging it as the most powerful
imperialist hegemon on earth, the International Committee of Sacramento DSA
understands the necessity of linking struggles of the U.S. working class with
those who struggle against imperialism and the military-corporate complexes that
benefit capitalists across the globe. This committee takes an explicit stance
against oppressive state violence, including both police and military actions.
The mission of this committee shall henceforth be; 1. to promote education about
international issues, 2. to express solidarity and support with international
working class and anti-colonial struggles for self-determination abroad, and 3.
to reject imperialism in all its forms as a barrier to the advancement of
socialism.

* Co-Chair(s): David M.

### Labor Committee

Want to learn about and get support in building power in your workplace to make
real change for you and your co-workers? Join the Labor Committee at our next
meeting.

* Co-Chair(s): Kyle L. and Corey C.


### Mutual Aid Committee

Under capitalism, the commodification of housing and other basic human needs
puts us and our neighbors in a constant state of precariousness. Federal, state,
and local governments have consistently failed to meet the needs of all
residents, especially unhoused residents. We as socialists believe in the need
for mutual aid to challenge the existing power structure and provide for those
marginalized and persecuted by the status quo, especially our BIPOC and LQBTQ+
who are more likely to face housing and food insecurity. We also believe it is
important to empower DSA members and members of the local community to make
meaningful systemic change.

The Mutual Aid Committee works to organize exchanges of resources and services
for the benefit of all. Through this collective effort, we will empower our
community to bring about systemic changes that will mitigate housing and food
insecurity in the region. Comrades will work together to assess what people need
and what the group can provide. Projects will be run by the community, for the
community, as mutual aid is fundamentally an organic and egalitarian social
relationship, not a material one based on hierarchy. We also believe it is
important to empower DSA members and members of the local community to make
meaningful systemic change (outside of existing systems).

* Co-Chair(s): Julia H. and Devan L.
* Contact: mutualaid@sacdsa.org

### Socialist Education Committee

One of the defining features of socialism is the praxis, the meeting of theory
and action. The Socialist Education Committee creates events and materials to
aid our members in using the history and ideology of the socialist movement as
tools in our day-to-day organizing.

* Co-Chair(s): David R. and Connie R.

### Trans Rights and Bodily Autonomy

The mission of the Trans Rights and Bodily Autonomy Committee is to build solidarity across the gender, racial, and socioeconomic divisions of Sacramento while challenging instead of reifying those divisions; develop a praxis informed by those most impacted to fight for collective liberation; and collaborate with other affinity groups, committees, and organizations to coordinate actions that challenge the existing power structures and fight for the bodily autonomy of all people.

* Co-Chairs: Emily and Alexandra

