---
layout: post 
title: "Hannah Williams Responds to Ryan Lillis - Democratic Socialists of America, Sacramento"
permalink: /blog/2017/10/04/landpark/
tag: op-ed 
short_description: "Sacramento DSA Member Hannah Williams Responds to Sacramento
Bee City Beat Piece 'Community watch or 'bourgeois snitches?' Facebook group
pushes city to clear homeless' Ryan Lillis, September 29, 2017"
---
Sacramento DSA Member Hannah Williams Responds to Sacramento Bee City Beat Piece
"[Community watch or ‘bourgeois snitches?’ Facebook group pushes city to clear
homeless" Ryan Lillis, September 29,
2017](http://www.sacbee.com/news/local/news-columns-blogs/city-beat/article176014416.html)

Last week, I became aware of an informal organization known as Land Park
Society, whose apparent mission has been to condemn and displace Sacramento’s
unhoused community, all under the guise of “cleaning up” their neighborhood.
Due to the extreme offensiveness of their language and treatment of houseless
folks, I decided to respond by calling out the organizers on Twitter and
Facebook. This simple act caught the attention of our local newspapers and a
couple days later I was interviewed by Ryan Lillis at the Sacramento Bee about
the Facebook group’s activities and my critiques. In the aftermath of [Lillis'
article](http://www.sacbee.com/news/local/news-columns-blogs/city-beat/article176014416.html)\*,
I have decided to elaborate more about my feelings on the matter:

In a Capitalist society, money is power. Collectively, Land Park Society have a
lot of money. The folks who live in Land Park have more power and influence in
Sacramento than our poor and unhoused community members could ever hope for. The
manner in which members of this private Facebook group use their power to
displace houseless folks through policing, private security, and business
associations, is inhumane and highly immoral. This group, which purports
themselves as “activists” upset about “crime, trash, and human feces,” clearly
does not concern themselves with the foundational circumstances that perpetuate
the human suffering that their actions exacerbate.

Witnessing the words and images that members share amongst one another on their
group’s page, about our houseless community, can only be understood as highly
disturbing. Houseless folks, who are simply minding their own business while
advocating for their own survival, are under constant shaming and threat by Land
Park Society. If the vigilantes of this informal organization really cared about
the crisis of houselessness in Sacramento—nor just their precious Land Park
neighborhood and their inflated property values—they would lay their
frustrations at the feet of our city council, where it belongs. I empathize with
the desire for clean and peaceful communities, but not at the expense of other
human beings. I empathize with the struggle of our houseless neighbors, who have
continually been stripped of public resources and experience daily humiliation
and degradation, all because Mayor Darrell Steinberg and the rest of the city
council won’t stand up for what is right and just.

Land Park Society has no interest in solutions, only in sweeping the problem
under the rug. They are playing whack-a-mole with the unhoused in Sacramento,
simply because they do not want their Land Park aesthetic disrupted. This
aesthetic being, clear economic segregation. Land Park Society believes
homelessness is a “poor people problem" and want nothing to do with it because
they either don’t understand what systematic problems are, and their role in
them, or they just don’t care. There is an apparent attitude towards our
houseless neighbors that they do not advocate and work hard enough to escape the
trap of poverty, which completely disregards their lived experiences and the
lack of available resources and assistance. Land Park Society members should
adjust their tune. They should listen to, and attempt to better understand, the
issues facing Sacramento’s unhoused community. I, along with the community of
other houseless advocates, invite you all to join us in demanding that our
“world class city” provide resources to those in need. We must advocate for the
betterment of all individuals, not just the wealthy and affluent residents of
Land Park.

\* *With regard to my being described as a “free speech activist” in this
article: I would like to say that, while I have never described myself as such, 
I am proud to reclaim this narrative back from the alt-right, who claims that 
their free speech rights are under threat. In fact, historically and presently 
it is leftists who have faced censorship and state oppression as a result of
anti-establishment, anti-capitalist, and anti-white supremacist speech.*
